Fish Pet expense report

The Fish table in the diagram denotes the name of the fish in the pet shop. The NameID is needed because there are many different types of fish in the aquarium and it’s necessary to keep track of which is which. Within the table, we have the attributes TankID, Price, and ItemID. The tank ID helps us know which tank the fish is in, the price is needed for when customers need to purchase the fish, and the item ID is there to have a different way of accessing what fish type we are retrieving. 
Similar to the Fish table, the primary key for the Pet table is the NameID. Within the NameID, we have the CageID, Price, and FoodType. The CageID is similar to the TankID in which it has a unique number to help track where the pet is stored. The FoodType allows us to know what kind of food the pet eats so we can provide that to the pet. 
The Expense Report allows us to know how much all the different attributes cost all in all. The different attributes within this table are the Total Food, Total Pet, Total Fish, and the Date. The total food primarily from the Food Purchases table, the total pet is the sum of all the total pet purchases from the Pet Purchases table and the total fish is the total Fish Purchases table. 

We decided to cut the purchases into three different tables: Food Purchases, Fish Purchases and Pet Purchases.  Although we could have put fish and pets in one table, we felt that having two different tables to get more specific details on the purchases would be more beneficial for the store. The expense report already combines all 3 types of purchases so separating them allows for a better way for the pet store to keep track of customers that only buy food or customers that only buy their fish from the store. The pet and fish table have the same attributes: name, price per, quantity, customer ID, and total spent pet/fish. With these attributes, we can keep track of who the customer is, how much they spent on each pet/fish, how many they bought, their ID number, and the total amount spent. We can track all the same  information for food as well allowing the store to know what particular product is selling more than others and who is buying it. 

The Aquarium table denotes all the water tanks in the pet shop. This is to help keep track of all the possible enclosures the fishes could be located in. Its primary key is TankID, a unique number to help keep track of each tank. The table has three attributes: Species, Population, and FoodType. Species, because each tank must contain only one type of fish. Population because it is important to know how many of each fish is in there so enough food is given as well as knowing how many are available for purchase. FoodType is so that we know what kind of food each tank needs, and that also tells us what kind of food each kind of fish eats. The Enclosure table works in the same way as the Aquarium table, except that it deals with animals instead of fish. Both the TankID and CageID are foreign keys to the Fish and Pet tables.
The Customer table is what represent each customer. Its primary key is CustomerID, and its attributes include the first and last name of the customer, as well as their email and phone number. This table also has an attribute for the customer’s total loyalty points. The CustomerID is a foreign key to the Food, Fish, and Pet Purchases table.

